Gentoo Linux Development Status

Latest system snapshot: 25 Apr 2001
Latest build snapshot: 01 May 2001
Current Release: None
Next Release: 1.0_rc5 (May 2001)

[ download/install ]


About Gentoo Linux

Linux is a fast, modern x86-based Linux distribution with a clean and flexible
design -- in this respect, Gentoo Linux may appeal to Slackware, Linux From
Scratch or BSD users. Unlike other Linux distros, Gentoo Linux has an advanced
package management system called Portage, similar in functionality to BSD
ports.  However, unlike ports, Portage is written in Python and is a good deal
more powerful and flexible than the BSD variant.

The latest Gentoo Linux packages are made available in the form of "ebuild"
autobuild scripts, which are integrated into the official Gentoo Linux Portage
tree by Gentoo Linux developers.  Users can update their local copy of the
Portage tree and gain access to the latest and greatest ebuilds, allowing them
to install the latest Linux software on their systems.

Here's how ebuilds work.  An ebuild script contains all the information needed
to download, patch, compile and install a particular package using the user's
preferred optimization settings, and with optional compile-time extensions
(like GNOME support) enabled or disabled as desired.  The user simply specifies
which package he or she would like built, and the sources are automatically
downloaded, unpacked, patched, compiled locally and the binaries are installed.
The user ends up with a package set up to his or her exact specifications.  


Related Resources:
	
	Gentoo Linux User Guide
	
	Portage User Guide
	
	Subscribe to the gentoo-announce
	mailing list ( release announcements)
	
	Subscribe to the gentoo-dev mailing list
	( user & developer list)
	
	Visit us at #gentoo at irc.openprojects.net

Alt:

	Linux 2.4.4+, glibc-2.2, gcc 2.95.3 and the latest development tools
	ReiserFS, LVM, ALSA, PCMCIA-CS and lm_sensors support built-in; XFS and GFS will be added soon
	Xfree86 4.0.3, OpenGL, KDE 2.1.1 and GNOME 1.4
	tcp-wrappers, uscpi-tcp ("tcpserver"), xinetd, iptables and Linux QoS tools (tc) included
	modern qmail (with optional mysql and LDAP support), postfix and exim MTAs
	GRUB boot loader (LILO is still available if you need it)
	D.J. Bernstein's supervise (daemontools) used to ensure availability for
	important services
	syslogd and klogd have been replaced with multilog (higher-performance, auto-rotation and
	64-bit timestamps)
	600+ up-to-date ebuild scripts for your favorite apps
	
Download/Install Gentoo Linux

News:

	We're currently recommending that people either wait for our next
	official Gentoo Linux ISO CD release (1.0_rc5) or install using a
	system or build snapshot for the time being.  We removed our previous
	release (1.0_rc4_pre2) from the ibiblio.org mirror because our current
	system snapshots and build images are much more robust, and include
	2.4.4+ kernels which no longer have ReiserFS filesystem corruption
	problems.

Impo:

	Please remember that Gentoo Linux is in a prerelease state.  This means
	that it should only be installed by developers or adventurous users, and
	should not be used in a production capacity.  Gentoo Linux will be
	production-ready by the 1.0 release.
	


Currently, we have three different methods of installing Gentoo Linux,
depending on your needs: the install CD method, the system snapshot method and the
build image method.

For every official Gentoo Linux release, we create a bootable ISO image that
can be used to install Gentoo Linux.  The process works as follows: you burn
the ISO image using a CD-R, and then boot the CD and are presented with a
minimal CD-based Gentoo Linux system.  You then use this system to create
partitions and set up filesystems as needed.  Once your filesystems are
created, you mount them and extract the system-image ("sys.tbz2") tarball
included on the CD, which contains a basic Gentoo Linux system.  After a few
more configuration steps, you can umount your Gentoo Linux partitions and
install a boot manager; Gentoo Linux is now ready to run.  Since our CD releases
include precompiled packages for most applications, they're generally around
600Mb in size.

In-between our official Gentoo Linux ISO CD releases, we create up-to-date
sys.tbz2 files, called "system snapshots".  These sys.tbz2 files are identical
in design to the sys.tbz2 image included on our official CDs, except that they
are more up-to-date and are used by our developers as we are refining a Gentoo
Linux for the next official CD release.  A lot of the time, we'll recommend
that you install a system snapshot rather than our latest official Gentoo Linux
CD release, because our system snapshots are often the most stable and
up-to-date version of Gentoo Linux available.  However, since system snapshots
are for developers only, we don't provide an ISO image; instead, we provide the
sys.tbz2 tarball only -- it's up to you to get the tarball extracted to a spare
partition.  However, we will often include bootdisks to make this process
easier, depending on whether or not the system snapshot is truly ready for
prime-time use.  System images average around 70Mb in size.

Our third, and possibly most interesting install method uses a "build image",
or build.tbz2 file.  This build.tbz2 file contains a minimal chrootable Gentoo
Linux environment; you use it by extracting build.tbz2 to a spare partition and
then chrooting to it from an existing Linux system.  Then, you can build a
complete Gentoo Linux system from scratch using Portage -- as well as your
desired optimization settings and compile-time extensions enabled.  Using the
"build image" approach, you can create a complete Gentoo Linux system from
scratch that's set up just the way you want it.

However, build image installation is a bit more labor intensive than the other
approaches.  First, you must download the build.tbz2 file (typically about 17Mb
in size), extract it to a spare partition, chroot to the build environment, configure
networking, and use emerge to grab the latest version of our Portage tree using
rsync.  Then, you can configure your /etc/make.conf with your desired system-wide
compilation settings, and use a special bootstrap script to automatically rebuild
the system to the point where it's the equivalent to a sys.tbz2 file.  At this
point, your Gentoo Linux system is ready to boot on its own.

Resources:

	Gentoo Linux Installation Guide: how to install Gentoo Linux via CD
	
	Gentoo Linux Portage User Guide
	
	Gentoo Linux System Snapshot README

	Primary Download Site at www.ibiblio.org:
		Gentoo Linux CD ISO images
		Gentoo Linux system snapshots and build images
		
	Secondary Download Site at www.sourceforge.net:
		Gentoo Linux CD ISO images
		Gentoo Linux system snapshots and build images
	
The team

Daniel Robbins



<p>Daniel Robbins is the President/CEO of Gentoo Technologies, Inc., the
creator of <a href="http://www.gentoo.org">Gentoo Linux</a> and the developer
of the <b>Portage</b> system.  In addition to his Gentoo Linux-related
responsibilities, he is also a regular columnist for the <a
href="http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/linux">IBM developerWorks</a> Linux
Zone and Usability special topic, and a frequent author of IBM developerWorks
Linux tutorials.  In the past, Daniel has also contributed to the Macmillan
books <i>Caldera OpenLinux Unleashed</i>, <i>SuSE Linux Unleased</i> and
<i>Samba Unleashed</i> and served as a Lead Graphic Artist for Psygnosis, now a
part of <a href="http://www.scea.com">SONY Computer Entertainment</a>.

